General comments:
Rubric: https://gist.github.com/jingliu9/42a9940794943c36e1ce051aba917a83

All of you did reasonably well on this project; some of you did excellently! So, to all, well done! Here we first add some general observations that we had across projects; not all of you encountered these issues, but we share the feedback with you anyhow in case it is useful in the future.

One general comment we had was about experimentation; it is VERY hard to perform quality experiments. A good experiment has a precise question that is trying to be answered; it then shows data to answer that question one way or the other. You should always think about the experiment carefully before running it, and then see if the question you have formulated is answered in a definitive manner.

Another point about experimentation: don’t just believe the numbers! Numbers are very easy to get wrong. As such, you usually need to get more data/numbers to confirm the numbers/data you have initially gotten make sense. One of us gave a talk (https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lGn9TyozC4s&ab_channel=USENIX) some time back that shows a specific example of this issue (see the 21:25 mark) which may be of use.

Another point about experimentation: you can gather more data points to make better graphs. Running something once will end up with a lot of noise; running many times will smooth out noise and get to a more understandable output.

Another general point is about presentation. You have to spend time on making the presentation! You can’t simply work until the deadline and then throw the slides together. Some of you understood this, and others did not. In other words, you have to set a deadline for the work that leaves time for making the presentation. 

Another presentation tip: having good slides matters. Practice them! Make sure you have spoken through each of the points you wish to make. Doing so gets the information across in a clearer, better way.

One last presentation tip: when presenting data or an experiment, please make sure to put the question at the top (what is the experiment trying to answer?) and the conclusion (the answer) on the slide. Don’t just say it; put important things on the slides.

A point about teamwork: Sometimes teams don’t work out. In those cases, get in touch with instructors early on! We can help remedy, but only if you let us know. 

One final point: some of you commented on all the work needed to make it all work. This is true! And, much like real life, alas. So, hopefully, something you can look back on fondly.

Group specific comments:

Overall, this was a reasonably well done project. The report was short and didn’t include too much about performance testing (just the one table?); the piece on consistency was clear. Seems like you got most things working. In general, perhaps writing a longer report would be worthwhile.

Other Notes:
overview of all pieces
staleness check using logical clock
  - version numbering tracked 
good source-file structuring
  - looks well engineered!
crush/crash confusion
what was hardest to get right?
  - basic function took a long time, e.g., correct errors
  - too many open files…
good observations and takeaways

OVERALL: looks well done, thorough, clean, …

